Medics say heavy fighting between
Israeli forces and Hamas has trapped
patients and thousands of displaced
people seeking Refuge at a hospital in
Gaza the Palestine red crescent Society
said their emergency crews at Al's
Hospital are facing blackouts and
intense shelling in the vicinity the
un's World Health Organization expressed
alarm at the situation in the alifa
hospital medical staff there say it has
run out of water food and electricity
Israel said it had clashed with Hamas
nearby but not fired on the
hospital Jason Lee is the county country
director I should say at save the
children in the Palestinian territories
in rala uh Jason the Israeli Army said
it has agreed to evacuate babies from
the alshifa hospital your colleagues
must be concerned some of the babies are
in intensive care how is it possible to
transport them safely and where are they
going exactly the situation we have
reached a humanitarian crisis we've had
confirmed reports of two babies that
have died this morning um that were in
incubators and there's 37 other babies
at elifa hospital that I at risk it is
critical critical that there is a
ceasefire an immediate ceasefire this is
the only way to protect civilians
especially those that are still trapped
and getting trapped in hospitals in
schools with nowhere safe to go there is
absolutely nowhere safe in Gaza right
now children are being killed at rate of
one child every 10 minutes one child is
being injured every five minutes this
has to stop we need the ceasefire we
need goods and supplies medicines food
water going to both North and Southern
Gaza and we need to send more Personnel
in my teams need to need to to go in we
need to find the children and we need to
deliver life life saving goods and
supplies to them Jason just very quickly
here it sounds like what you're implying
here is that you're not buying this uh
Israeli plan to get babies out of alifa
and to transport them safely we haven't
heard the details but you're not buying
this as an
idea it is difficult to do so there are
many many patients and babies that are
in critical care now I am not a
physician but I know it is not a simple
way not a simple mechanism to take
Patients Out on machines that are
life-saving machines that they're on
also in situations where there is
ongoing conflict there's still clashes
there's still shelling the risk of
civilians being injured and killed is
incredibly High all sides all sides have
to meet their obligations under
international law and protect the
civilians especially children okay the
Israeli Hamas War has already displaced
thousands of children in Gaza as you
know how do they cope with with the
trauma and the emotional distress of
this
war children need to be safe and
protected they're 1.5 million people
that's 60% of the population that have
been displaced they've been displaced to
shelters without food or water we need
to get them safe which means the
ceasefire we need supplies coming in we
need Personnel going in to give them the
treatment the therapy and the support so
that they can recover that they can
rebuild their lives it is critical that
they that this happens now the long-term
mental health and psychosocial needs of
children that experience such extreme
violence cannot be underscored it leaves
a mark on them and they need the support
right now you're talking about
psychological impacts do you fear that
the children who survive the horrors of
this conflict will be prone to
indoctrination uh radicalization and a
perpetuation of the cycle of
violence it is critical I mean children
can recover unfortunately this is not
the first escalation that children in
Gaza has experienced all our research
shows increasing levels of anxiety
depress depression feelings of
withdrawal and worst of all a loss of
Hope children do not believe that they
have a hope in the future in order to
restore this we need the ceasefire now
to keep them safe we need Personnel
going in to give them the treatment and
therapy and there must be there must be
political will to actually come to a
just Equitable and durable peace between
Israel and Palestine this is the only
way can secure the future of of children
within the region but this has to start
first with a ceasefire okay that is a
Jason Le country director at save the
children in the Palestinian territories
in rala thank you so
much thank
you for more on the situation
surrounding gaza's hospitals I spoke to
Israeli military spokesman Lieutenant
Colonel Richard heck I first asked him
if the alifa hospital is under siege by
the Israeli
military the alifa hospital is not under
siege we have encircled and we are
closing in on the Hamas inside Gaza City
there are IDF forces in the vicinity of
the hospital we are not targeting the
hospital we are trying to find ways to
uh have get the people out we're trying
to find ways to facilitate assistance to
the hospital sadly Hamas are and their
civilians H well uh Dr morwin abusada
the head of surgery at the hospital who
I spoke to yesterday has today told the
Observer newspaper that people trying to
evacuate the hospital were shot at and
some killed Doctors Without Borders also
reports that its staff are witnessing
people trying to leave the hospital
being shot who's shooting
them H for sure it's not the Ida we've H
announced ER safe passage from the
hospital in addition to the two
humanitarian corridors down South we are
not targeting civilians we are targeting
Hamas anyone coming out ER with no
intention of harming anyone will not be
targeted by us sadly we've seen Hamas
also targeting people trying to move
South and their own
civilians Lieutenant Colonel you
understand if I continue to push back
because there are lots of allegations
from many corners a surgeon from Doctors
Without Borders Muhammad obid says four
patients actually within the hospital
have been shot by sniper fire was that
the Israeli sniper
fire I'm not aware of these claims and I
do not believe and I can tell you
without knowing the the details there is
no way the IDF sniper would shoot a
patient in a hospital Michael this is
not how we
operate what I'm curious about is the
fact that over and over again the
Israeli Army says that Hamas is using
these Hospital facilities for cover
essentially using uh the civilians there
as human
Shields what is difficult for people to
understand though they can understand
and the great uh suffering that Israel
had to endure back on October 7th the
reason why you've actually started this
campaign what they don't understand is
how you can distinguish between Hamas
Fighters and regular innocent
Palestinians in a hospital or on the
street how can you say with assurance
that Israel is not firing at innocent
civilians perhaps people that soldiers
might mistake as Hamas
militants
well Michael first of all This Is
War um and we have to also we we don't
forget what happened on the 7th of
October but I will tell you uh as a
military for the last month we've been
saying and allowing and doing everything
we can in every capability we have
because we understand that we're not
fighting the civilians we are saying to
the people the civilians of uh the city
of Gaza to move South we've opened these
humanitarian corridors we've done
Tactical poses in neighborhoods to allow
people to move sadly uh as we've closed
in we've come to a sort of uh bottleneck
with the hospitals and we're trying to
solve it we're trying to solve it
Michael H it's very painful for me to
see too and not only as a soldier as a
father and this is uh the cynicism of
Hamas we will do everything we can and
we're aware of the situation the dire
situation in the hospital there'll be
more information coming out today of how
we try and intend to make this
happen it's very painful that's all I
can say this is not something that we
enjoy doing let me ask we have to stop
let me move to another issue here the
Israeli military is offering to evacuate
babies from the hospital how do you
envis envisage then
working so we're we're in contact our
civil Administration people are in
contact with the hospital and other
International bodies we're trying to
find a solution I think this thing will
be unfold in the upcoming day or two
again we are not currently striking the
hospital there's no such a thing even
with the allegations that are coming out
from some of the people that you are
talking to so we're aware of this it's h
dire and sensitive and we're doing the
best we can the rantisi hospital and the
N hospital for example have been already
evacuated let me ask you this as a
followup if I might assuming that those
uh kids could be transported safely
where could those babies then be taken
to for safe medical treatment all of
gaza's hospitals are collapsing as a
result of Israeli military
action again we are not targeting
hospitals we are very aware of the
situation in the hospitals and there
will be a solution of some sort um to be
determined okay but that's an offer
that's being made today that is a very
important news angle that we are seeing
in in present
terms what is the plan for those babies
to be taken from point A to point B and
how can you ensure for their safety is
that an answer that you don't have at
this point as as an information that I
cannot share with you Michael you don't
have it or you can't share it I can't
share with you at this point how this is
going to happen Okay what is so
strategically important about alifa
hospital so they we we've H and we
exposed this a few weeks ago we see this
as a main Hub of Hamas activity
cynically they've been
also hiding within and also underneath
the hospital I would again quote Abu
maruk who said you know we we don't care
about our people above the ground ER we
care about destroying Israel and they're
saying that again and again we cannot
have Hamas have the capability to do
this again as painful as it is and we're
doing everything we can Michael
Lieutenant Colonel um Hospital
administrators have invited neutral
parties to come and see for themselves
that they are no as they say militants
in or under their Hospital what proof do
you have that there are in fact
militants
there I'd like to see that uh also what
they've come to show I I haven't seen
any of these third party entities saying
or any of these reports Michael uh we
have our intelligence core and uh we
have our information on what's going on
in that hospital why not allow
independent monitors into Gaza in into
the hospital to assess the situation in
the
hospital first of all I think there's
International entities that are moving
in out of the hospital I think unra have
been in the hospital but again that's
not in my Lane of responsibility I'm a
military man and I all I can do is
explain the the the military actions
that we are doing
international well well you're a
military man so you I think you can
understand and answer this question
let's say that you succeed in achieving
the full evacuation of the alifa
hospital what will the Israeli military
do then are you going to destroy the
hospital
building we will not destroy the
hospital building we will go and see and
search and uh take here only on
terrorist infrastructure we do not
destroy that's not our goal to destroy
hospitals the rantisi hospital is in we'
they've left evacuated also the NASA
Hospital we're only going after military
targets it may not be your goal but
that's what you're effectively doing
peace meal right now you must concede
that
sir we we are we're not doing that have
you we have not stried or destroyed any
Hospital Michael okay that's a
lieutenant colonel Richard he we will go
in in a very specific way and try and uh
root out the terrorist
infrastructure again Lieutenant Colonel
Richard hack Israeli military spokesman
thank you for your time
thank you for having
me for more I am pleased to welcome Dr
Marwan abusada head of surgery at the
alifa hospital in Gaza it's a pleasure
to have you on with us sir uh fuel has
run out and operations have been
suspended at your hospital give us uh
insight into what you and your team are
facing at the hospital now and how many
people are still
there yes we are in okay thank you we
are in BC Hospital hospital bombardment
and shooting everywhere around us in
shifa hospital no one can get out from
the shifa and the border of shifa and no
one can get inside the shifa now it is
very difficult dangerous any anyone who
planning to go outside he is exposed to
shooting or to bombardment and so on
even if you are if you walk inside the
Sha Hospital between the building or
inside the parking you are exposed to
shooting and so on here sh Hospital we
are accommodating around 600 patient in
all the department and in recovery area
of our operation theater and in theal
ICU in the notal ICU not moreal ICU in
the operating theater we are keeping
theal babies and I will show later the
picture of that to the media and also we
are keeping in the our ICU and this is
the fifth time sha was exposed to direct
bombardment yesterday it was bombarded
for four times the gy and building was
comped twice and the in front of the
main Administrative Building was
attacked and also thean building was
attacked that The Barking of it and
today this morning the our ICU is
directly attacked by bombardment and it
was a destruction to the wall and the to
the main IC of sh Hospital okay
yesterday for that bment five people
were killed and many were injured in
that moment most of them they are
civilian and companies of their relative
in this hospital now today in shifa
hospital we don't have electricity we
run out of water and the fuel no and now
we today we move the all the fa 38 fait
from there in the metal ICU just to the
main theater here in chifa hospital we
we can have only electricity in this
wall and this is an unsafe condition we
are keeping them because yesterday we
ran out of electricity unfortunately we
lost two lives of there a premature
babies we lost two lives and because of
we cut of electricity during the night
time we also lost one life on mechanical
ventilator in adult I and one of our
team was inured maintenance team during
the night when they were in okay they
went to repair this uh outw this non
functioning issues there regard the
oxygen
they have one of the team has been shot
in the neck and he got paralyzed this
situation is very very difficult we run
off of water also we don't have water
electricity fuel this is UN unsafe
condition to work it is Doctor can I
doctor can I ask you I I feel terrible
interrupting you when you are painting
what is a picture of of Hell frankly and
I think people cannot imagine what you
are going through uh but I do want to
ask you this the the Israeli military
says alifa Hospital serves as hamas's
headquarters and that Hamas militants
have tunnels leading to it tell us how
long you have been working at the
hospital and what you can tell us about
that I want to make it clear I'm asking
you what you can tell us about that
doctor yes this is an open invitation to
all interational agency and to the isra
Army to come to CH hospital and to look
for what is what we having in chip
Hospital what we have this the displaced
people the patient themselves and we
have the medical staff who are available
in shifa hospital this is a complete lie
we don't have we're not hiding any
militant group here in sha hospital just
but okay we are this a civil institution
sha hospital this is a major Hospital in
Gaza with a huge number of people how to
cope where to evacuate these people I'm
doctor I'm going to stop you again and I
and I hate doing this but I'm going to
interrupt you again because I want to be
very clear for our viewers no one is is
suggesting necessarily that you or
anyone else at the hospital is
protecting Hamas or hiding them the
argument that the IDF that the Israeli
government is making is that Hamas is
using you using innocent Palestinians as
human Shields and that they are hiding
underneath your
hospital can you tell us can you tell us
without any doubt that that's not
happening I know what to the underground
you may have the fuel in the underground
we don't know what the underground okay
on the ground nothing is there on the
ground you can't tell I don't know what
is in Israel itself they were tunnel in
Israel why they did toct okay we don't
have any T here the underground we don't
see any open for or okay here in the Sha
hospital this is a civil organization I
can assure you and anyone can come to sh
hospital and see what is inside the sh
Hospital nothing is clear okay to be
clear this is a Civ Institution
well then let me let me ask you this
then doctor let me ask you this you're
clearly very emotional and I think
anyone listening to you will understand
why but then let me ask you in just very
clear terms is it your suggestion then
that Israel is making this up for what
purpose to bomb innocent
civilians no yes yes
is
C the main building were destructed here
in Gaza they are attacking the civilian
they are killing the civilian especially
the children and the woman of palestinia
more than 11,000 people have been killed
most of them maybe the whole number is
thean is noic people among them the most
of them they are children 40 they are
children who have been killed what about
these children they are children they
are militant group okay ask your
children who have been killed they are
militant group they are safely are
staying their home okay Israeli telling
us Evacuate the hospital where to go
where to go I would like to ask you
there is no any institution LGE enough
to cope with this huge number of people
here and they asked yesterday the people
to move to the South theyed the people
of the in the South area in the main
street of Gaza and yesterday yesterday
some of the people after the bment of sh
hospital they moved to the school they
again attack them in the school and they
15 people were killed in that in that
mass school so anywhere you go un say
okay I think Israeli all right they need
more and more killing of Civilian and
especially the children of J and this is
thank you so much for your time sir that
is Dr Maan
abusada